---
title: App Lab Program
description: Creative Development
layout: post
comments: true
toc: true
categories: [week3, markdown]
---
# Quiz Creation
## Taylor Swift Quiz
[Link to creation!](https://studio.code.org/projects/applab/gVZYlItStYCmdhUWcBW5HN-tpMzoSAJwwb8PckhVdEE)

**Planning:** Growing up I loved taking Buzzfeed quizzes about topics that I loved and enjoyed, this inspired me to create this quiz. I wanted this quiz to be a quiz about something that I loved so I chose Taylor Swift. I had never used code.org before so I wanted to experiment around and have all the questions have different formats. I also knew that I wanted to add lots of pictures into the quiz. I wanted to be able to generate a score at the end, so I decided to do a trivia quiz.

**Function:** This quiz has 4 questions that will test the users knowledge on facts about Taylor Swift. As the user answers questions, they will be notified if the answer is correct or incorrect. At the end of the quiz they will be given a score on how they did on the quiz.

**How it was created:**
- set variables for the score to 0 to have an accurate score calculated at the end of the quiz
- score is calculated by the number of correct answers and the number of attempts when answering questions
- when user gets the answer correct 1 is added to the score and the number of tries
- when user gets the answer wrong 1 is added to the number of tries but the score stays the same
- the quiz starts at a home page with a start button that leads to the first question
- first question has a sliding bar with set values that determine if the answer is correct. user must slide the bar to the correct photo to answer the question. when the bar is at the correct point it leads the user to the correct answer screen and is guided to the next question. when the answer is incorrect, the user is lead to an incorrect answer screen, and asked to try again.
- the second question has photos with buttons that can be clicked to answer the question. just like the first question when the answer is correct, there is a correct answer page and when the answer is incorrect, there is a incorrect answer page.
- the third question uses a drop down bar to answer the question. there are 4 options and the user clicks on one of options to answer the question. the user will be lead to either an incorrect or correct answer page when they answer the question.
- the final question is a text input question. the user is asked to answer a question by typing in an answer. after typing the answer the user will push enter on their keyboard and will be lead an incorrect or correct answer page. 
- after the user has completed the quiz, they are lead to the final page. in this final page there is a button that can be clicked to reveal their final score. the score is generated by the function that was created in the beginning.

**Successes:**
- it was easy to navigate the platform so the coding portion of the project was fairly easy to catch on to
- the quiz is clear and easy to understand
- learned how to use variables to help calculate score at the end of quiz
- design portion of the quiz is neat and pretty

**Strugges:**
- there are a lot of different id's so it is important to label the images, text boxes, buttons, and pages so they don't get confusing
- the code was often repetitive and there wasn't a way to copy and paste the code