---
title: College Board 5.1 and 5.2
description: Notes on unit 5.1 an 5.2
layout: post
comments: true
toc: true
categories: [week20, markdown]
---
# College Board 5.1

### There are always going to be benefits and disadvantages to technology

- technology is addictive and releases dopamine
- people become addicted to spending time on their computers

### ChatGPT
- used to search up things or answer questions
- there are some problems/risks of using ChatGPT:
    - bias
    - not able to find sources
    - doesnt see multiple perspectives

# College Board 5.2

### Digital Divide is a difference between people in which they either have or don't have something in relationship to technology, computers, or the internet

### Other schools vs us vs. Google
- there is a digital divide between us, other schools, and google
    - some schools have worse technology than us, not being able to have computers
    - google has more advanced technology because they are able to have more access to them and they have more data that they can use

# Reflection
1. Think of three beneficial effects of your projects based on 5.1 Unit
- Helping everyone become more informed on menstrual cycles
- Helping women track their cycle
- Motivating people when they are having a hard time on their period

2. Think of a potential harmful effect of your project.
- It is not applicable to around half of the population

3. Answer with an opinion and learnings so far this year:  What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?
Having internet blockers at our school have their pros and cons. The school is able to ensure that the students are visiting appropriate and safe websites. A negative thing about this feature is that students sometimes need to use certain websites that are blocked and must use a VPN or hotspot. The benefits of students being able to use lab machines freely is that they have more access to the resources that they need, while also having more freedom. A disadvantage is that students could end up using the lab machines innappropriately.

4. What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.
A concern that I have about the digital divide for others is that they could start to fall behind in technology and will not have as many resources as us. A concern that I have for myself when it comes to digital divide is that I could not have as much access to resources as others.
